CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing Plugins

Thank you for contributing to the Ichiba marketplace! We welcome plugins that:

- **Solve real problems** in development workflows
- **Demonstrate best practices** for plugin structure and design
- **Help others learn** by providing clear, well-documented examples

This guide will help you add your plugin to the marketplace.

## Quick Start

### Option 1: Using Anthropic's Plugin-Dev Toolkit (Recommended)

1. **Install the plugin-dev toolkit**:

```bash
/plugin marketplace add anthropics/claude-plugins-official
/plugin install plugin-dev@claude-plugins-official
```

2. **Create your plugin**:

```bash
/plugin-dev:create-plugin [description of what your plugin does]
```

3. **Move your plugin to this repo's `plugins/` directory**:

```bash
mv ~/.config/claude/plugins/your-plugin-name /path/to/ichiba/plugins/
```

4. **Add an entry to `.claude-plugin/marketplace.json`**:

```json
{
  "plugins": [
    {
      "name": "your-plugin-name",
      "version": "1.0.0",
      "description": "Clear description of what your plugin does",
      "path": "plugins/your-plugin-name"
    }
  ]
}
```

5. **Open a pull request**

### Option 2: Manual Creation

If you prefer to create your plugin manually:

1. Create a directory under `plugins/` with your plugin name
2. Create `.claude-plugin/plugin.json` in your plugin directory
3. Add your commands, agents, skills, hooks, or MCP configurations
4. Update the marketplace manifest
5. Open a pull request

## Plugin Structure

A typical plugin structure looks like:

```
plugins/your-plugin-name/
├── .claude-plugin/
│   └── plugin.json           # Plugin manifest (required)
├── commands/
│   └── *.md                  # Slash commands
├── agents/
│   └── *.md                  # Agents
├── skills/
│   └── skill-name/
│       └── SKILL.md          # Skills
├── hooks/
│   └── hooks.json            # Hooks configuration
├── .mcp.json                 # MCP server configuration
└── README.md                 # Plugin documentation (recommended)
```

## Requirements

Before submitting your plugin, ensure:

- **Accurate description**: Your plugin's description is how people will find it. Be specific and clear.
- **Working state**: The plugin should be tested and functional
- **README**: Include basic usage instructions in your plugin's README
- **Valid JSON**: All JSON files (plugin.json, hooks.json, .mcp.json) must be valid
- **Version**: Follow semantic versioning (e.g., 1.0.0)

## Plugin Manifest Example

Your `plugins/your-plugin-name/.claude-plugin/plugin.json` should look like:

```json
{
  "name": "your-plugin-name",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "description": "A clear, specific description of what your plugin does (at least 20 characters)",
  "author": "Your Name",
  "components": {
    "commands": ["command-name"],
    "agents": ["agent-name"],
    "skills": ["skill-name"],
    "hooks": true,
    "mcp": true
  }
}
```

## Review Process

- **One approval required**: A maintainer will review your plugin
- **Review checks**:
  - Does it work as described?
  - Is the description accurate and helpful?
  - Are all required files present?
  - Is the JSON valid?
- **Timeline**: Reviews typically happen within a few days

At this early stage, we're keeping the bar low to encourage sharing. We're not doing deep architectural reviews - if it works and solves a real problem, ship it!

## Commit Message Guidelines

We use [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/) for clear, consistent commit messages:

```
<type>(<scope>): <description>

[optional body]

[optional footer(s)]
```

### Types

- **feat**: A new plugin or feature
- **fix**: A bug fix in an existing plugin
- **docs**: Documentation changes
- **refactor**: Code changes that neither fix bugs nor add features
- **test**: Adding or updating tests
- **chore**: Maintenance tasks, dependency updates

### Examples

```
feat(commit-helper): add conventional commits plugin

Generates commit messages following conventional commits format.
Includes configurable scopes and automatic type detection.
```

```
fix(pr-template): handle repositories without package.json

Falls back to git log when package.json is not available.
```

```
docs: add installation instructions to README
```

## Best Practices

### Writing Good Descriptions

❌ Bad: "Helps with commits"
✅ Good: "Generates commit messages following conventional commits format"

❌ Bad: "Code review tool"
✅ Good: "Runs a structured security-focused code review checklist"

### Designing for Extensibility

If your plugin includes skills, consider designing them to read configuration from the repository:

- Check for `.claude/config/your-plugin-config.md` for custom rules
- Look for relevant sections in `CLAUDE.md` or project READMEs
- Allow teams to extend behavior without copying your entire skill

### When to Split Plugins

Consider creating separate plugins when:

- Behaviors are independent (e.g., separate plugins for linting vs formatting)
- Teams might want different combinations
- Some parts use hooks/MCP (which can't be overridden) and you want them to be optional

## Questions?

If you have questions or need help creating your plugin:

1. Check the [Claude Code Plugins Documentation](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code/plugins)
2. Open an issue in this repository
3. Reach out to the maintainers

## Code of Conduct

- Be respectful and constructive in all interactions
- Provide helpful feedback on others' contributions
- Focus on solving real problems and improving developer experience
- Share knowledge and help others learn
- Write clear documentation so others can understand and adapt your work

## License

By contributing to this marketplace, you agree that your plugins will be available under the MIT License, free for anyone to use and modify. This helps the broader community learn from and build upon your work.

Commit message:

docs: clarify that contributions are not being accepted yet
Update CONTRIBUTING.md to clearly state:
- Marketplace is not accepting external contributions at this time
- Will open up in the future after establishing foundation
- Document serves as reference and example for teams
- Remove review process section and casual "ship it" language
- Update all "open a PR" references to "test locally"
- Reframe as educational and reference material

This sets proper expectations while still providing valuable
documentation for teams building their own marketplaces.

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing Plugins

## Status: Not Accepting Contributions Yet

This marketplace is currently in its initial development phase and **we are not accepting external contributions at this time**. We plan to open up contributions in the future once we have established a solid foundation and initial set of example plugins.

In the meantime, this document serves as:
- Reference documentation for plugin structure and best practices
- An example contribution guide that teams can use for their own internal marketplaces
- Educational material for understanding how Claude Code plugins work

**Watch this repository** for updates on when we'll begin accepting contributions.

---

## Reference: Creating Plugins

This section provides reference material for creating Claude Code plugins. While we're not accepting contributions yet, this information is useful for:
- Teams building their own internal marketplaces
- Learning how to structure plugins properly
- Understanding the plugin development workflow

### Option 1: Using Anthropic's Plugin-Dev Toolkit (Recommended)

1. **Install the plugin-dev toolkit**:

```bash
/plugin marketplace add anthropics/claude-plugins-official
/plugin install plugin-dev@claude-plugins-official
```

2. **Create your plugin**:

```bash
/plugin-dev:create-plugin [description of what your plugin does]
```

3. **Move your plugin to this repo's `plugins/` directory**:

```bash
mv ~/.config/claude/plugins/your-plugin-name /path/to/ichiba/plugins/
```

4. **Add an entry to `.claude-plugin/marketplace.json`**:

```json
{
  "plugins": [
    {
      "name": "your-plugin-name",
      "version": "1.0.0",
      "description": "Clear description of what your plugin does",
      "path": "plugins/your-plugin-name"
    }
  ]
}
```

5. Test your plugin locally

### Option 2: Manual Creation

If you prefer to create your plugin manually:

1. Create a directory under `plugins/` with your plugin name
2. Create `.claude-plugin/plugin.json` in your plugin directory
3. Add your commands, agents, skills, hooks, or MCP configurations
4. Update the marketplace manifest
5. Test your plugin locally

## Plugin Structure

A typical plugin structure looks like:

```
plugins/your-plugin-name/
├── .claude-plugin/
│   └── plugin.json           # Plugin manifest (required)
├── commands/
│   └── *.md                  # Slash commands
├── agents/
│   └── *.md                  # Agents
├── skills/
│   └── skill-name/
│       └── SKILL.md          # Skills
├── hooks/
│   └── hooks.json            # Hooks configuration
├── .mcp.json                 # MCP server configuration
└── README.md                 # Plugin documentation (recommended)
```

## Requirements

Before submitting your plugin, ensure:

- **Accurate description**: Your plugin's description is how people will find it. Be specific and clear.
- **Working state**: The plugin should be tested and functional
- **README**: Include basic usage instructions in your plugin's README
- **Valid JSON**: All JSON files (plugin.json, hooks.json, .mcp.json) must be valid
- **Version**: Follow semantic versioning (e.g., 1.0.0)

## Plugin Manifest Example

Your `plugins/your-plugin-name/.claude-plugin/plugin.json` should look like:

```json
{
  "name": "your-plugin-name",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "description": "A clear, specific description of what your plugin does (at least 20 characters)",
  "author": "Your Name",
  "components": {
    "commands": ["command-name"],
    "agents": ["agent-name"],
    "skills": ["skill-name"],
    "hooks": true,
    "mcp": true
  }
}
```

## Commit Message Guidelines

We use [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/) for clear, consistent commit messages:

```
<type>(<scope>): <description>

[optional body]

[optional footer(s)]
```

### Types

- **feat**: A new plugin or feature
- **fix**: A bug fix in an existing plugin
- **docs**: Documentation changes
- **refactor**: Code changes that neither fix bugs nor add features
- **test**: Adding or updating tests
- **chore**: Maintenance tasks, dependency updates

### Examples

```
feat(commit-helper): add conventional commits plugin

Generates commit messages following conventional commits format.
Includes configurable scopes and automatic type detection.
```

```
fix(pr-template): handle repositories without package.json

Falls back to git log when package.json is not available.
```

```
docs: add installation instructions to README
```

## Best Practices

### Writing Good Descriptions

❌ Bad: "Helps with commits"
✅ Good: "Generates commit messages following conventional commits format"

❌ Bad: "Code review tool"
✅ Good: "Runs a structured security-focused code review checklist"

### Designing for Extensibility

If your plugin includes skills, consider designing them to read configuration from the repository:

- Check for `.claude/config/your-plugin-config.md` for custom rules
- Look for relevant sections in `CLAUDE.md` or project READMEs
- Allow teams to extend behavior without copying your entire skill

### When to Split Plugins

Consider creating separate plugins when:

- Behaviors are independent (e.g., separate plugins for linting vs formatting)
- Teams might want different combinations
- Some parts use hooks/MCP (which can't be overridden) and you want them to be optional

## Questions?

For questions about plugin development or this marketplace:

1. Check the [Claude Code Plugins Documentation](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code/plugins)
2. Open an issue in this repository for questions about the documentation or structure

## Code of Conduct

- Be respectful and constructive in all interactions
- Provide helpful feedback on others' contributions
- Focus on solving real problems and improving developer experience
- Share knowledge and help others learn
- Write clear documentation so others can understand and adapt your work

## Future License

When we do begin accepting contributions, all contributed plugins will be available under the MIT License, free for anyone to use and modify. This helps the broader community learn from and build upon shared work.
